# Pre_Trained_Img_Classifier_to_Identify_Dog_Breeds
An AWS project to get a grip over basic machine learning
Image Classification for a City Dog Show Description:
Introduction:
Welcome to the City Dog Show Spectacular, an extraordinary event that brings together the finest four-legged companions from the heart of the urban jungle. This one-of-a-kind dog show celebrates the unique bond between city dwellers and their beloved furry friends. In this description, we will explore the various dog breeds participating in the show and their remarkable qualities, highlighting their impressive skills, elegance, and adaptability to city living.
 Your city is hosting a citywide dog show and you have volunteered to help the organizing committee with contestant registration. Every participant that registers must submit an image of their dog along with biographical information about their dog. The registration system tags the images based upon the biographical information.

Some people are planning on registering pets that aren’t actual dogs.

You need to use an already developed Python classifier to make sure the participants are dogs.

Note, you DO NOT need to create the classifier. It will be provided to you. You will need to apply the Python tools you just learned to USE the classifier.

Your Tasks: Using your Python skills, you will determine which image classification algorithm works the "best" on classifying images as "dogs" or "not dogs". Determine how well the "best" classification algorithm works on correctly identifying a dog's breed. If you are confused by the term image classifier look at it simply as a tool that has an input and an output. The Input is an image. The output determines what the image depicts. (for example, a dog). Be mindful of the fact that image classifiers do not always categorize the images correctly. Time how long each algorithm takes to solve the classification problem. With computational tasks, there is often a trade-off between accuracy and runtime. The more accurate an algorithm, the higher the likelihood that it will take more time to run and use more computational resources to run. For further clarifications, please check our FAQs here.

Important Notes: For this image classification task, you will be using an image classification application using a deep learning model called a convolutional neural network (often abbreviated as CNN). CNNs work particularly well for detecting features in images like colors, textures, and edges; then using these features to identify objects in the images. You'll use a CNN that has already learned the features from a giant dataset of 1.2 million images called ImageNet. There are different types of CNNs that have different structures (architectures) that work better or worse depending on your criteria. With this project, you'll explore the three different architectures (AlexNet, VGG, and ResNet) and determine which is best for your application.

We have provided you with a classifier function in classifier.py that will allow you to use these CNNs to classify your images. The test_classifier.py file contains an example program that demonstrates how to use the classifier function. For this project, you will be focusing on using your Python skills to complete these tasks using the classifier function.

Remember that certain breeds of dogs look very similar. The more images of two similar-looking dog breeds that the algorithm has learned from, the more likely the algorithm will be able to distinguish between those two breeds. We have found the following breeds to look very similar: Great Pyrenees and Kuvasz, German Shepherd and Malinois, Beagle and Walker Hound, amongst others. Program Outline : Time your program Use Time Module to compute program runtime Get program Inputs from the user Use command line arguments to get user inputs Create Pet Images Labels Use the pet images filenames to create labels Store the pet image labels in a data structure (e.g. dictionary) Create Classifier Labels and Compare Labels Use the Classifier function to classify the images and create the classifier labels Compare Classifier Labels to Pet Image Labels Store Pet Labels, Classifier Labels, and their comparison in a complex data structure (e.g. dictionary of lists) Classifying Labels as "Dogs" or "Not Dogs" Classify all Labels as "Dogs" or "Not Dogs" using dognames.txt file Store new classifications in the complex data structure (e.g. dictionary of lists) Calculate the Results Use Labels and their classifications to determine how well the algorithm worked on classifying images Print the Results You will need to repeat these tasks for each of the three image classification algorithms that are provided to you.
